Decorators call agenda and notes
Tuesday, August 7, 2018, 17:00 UTC

Attendees:

Bradley Farias (BF)
Justin Ridgewell (JRL)
Daniel Ehrenberg (DE)
Ron Buckton (RB)
Yehuda Katz (YK)
Diego Ferreiro Val

Agenda & notes:
* PrivateName interface and integrity https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/pull/134  
    * Landed the patch; any concerns? 
    * Will meet with SES group later today 
    * Dan's take: Should be good 
    * DE: I’m going to an SES meeting tonight to make progress on the “why freeze method functions” concern. 
    * JRL: It would be good confirm with Mark about theoretical concerns. Do we really want to freeze instances, and not permit monkey-patching? 
    * DE: Decorators always get a new instance of a PrivateName, unsure on what usage advantage is by allowing mutability of instances. 
* PrivateName scope limitation https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/pull/136  
    * Let's hear Yehuda's concerns about this limitation 
    * Should we limit the scope further? 
    * Dan's take: Let's close this patch--not clear if it makes anyone happy--and clarify our documentation https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/pull/137 
    * DE: YK is concerned. The change limits class decorators from getting read/write access to private name fields, but they can still see the key is there. 
    * RB: This is a problem with JS. I could have a private field that stores with a map, and someone could patch Map.get/set, and now I have a leak. The only solution to this is in frozen realms where you can get the intrinsics early. 
    * DE: I agree 
    * DE: Allen argues that we should just not decorate private fields at all, because it violates the hard private contract. I made a document about it. 
    * JRL: I agree with the document. 
    * RB: If you’re concerned with foreign decorators, you’re free to add a redact helper to limit the things passed to. 
    * BF: Having secure robust code shouldn’t be a necessity for decorators. 
    * JRL: that works for me. 
    * YK: I don’t have use cases for exposing privates in a class decorator at the moment, but I think it will be necessary for future uses. It might be the thing that pushes people to use decorators instead of using _priv fields. Without a strict invariant preventing it, we should allow this use case. 
    * RB: I look a private like an encapsulation boundary, not security boundary. By placing a decorator in the class, you’ve granted access to the class. 
    * DE: MM wants to achieve a security concern with privates using branding. 
    * RB: Private in .NET, any full trust code can get privates. In partial trust envs, no partially trusted code can get your private state. Encapsulation with trust guarantees MM’s requirements. 
* export/decorator ordering https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/69 
    * Let's hear from Ron before concluding 
    * Dan's take: We are unlikely to get consensus at TC39 with decorators preceding export; any attempt at a different syntax will need to work offline closely with many delegates to achieve consensus. 
    * RB: Talking with Angular, I’ve got feedback: https://gist.github.com/rbuckton/ca972fc63708fc2e537ed2bec0049655  
    * Function.p.toString 
        * RB: Provides limited diagnostic purposes. Very brittle to pass to eval. Static methods also don’t include `static`. 
        * DE: We discussed this with the champions of the toString proposal, they’re open to changing. This was just the easiest option. 
        * RB: I think we should include export in the toString if we include decorators. 
        * BF: I would prefer if decorators is included, but not be ok including export. 
        * RB: I don’t like that we’ve decided that it can’t include export in toString, but using that for the argument to make decorators come after export is bad. The May meeting decided that export can’t be there, and we have to include decorators in it, that forces the decision for export @dec. 
        * DE: YK and I have been discussing this. 
        * YK: I think people felt persuaded by it. 
    * Decorating an export 
        * Placing decorators before export prevents decorating the export itself. 
        * RB: I opened #135 to discuss decorating exports. If we decide it doesn’t really. It is difficult to take an argument that it prevents, if we don’t even know if we want to decorate exports. 
        * YK: The current syntax it not hostile to whether it’s before or after decorators. 
        * Diego: The semantics of the location would imply would mean. 
        * RB: I hate having decorators before and after the export (one decorating the export and one decorating the class). I don’t think this is viable. 
        * YK: Even if we decide we want to decorate exports. The placement of the decorator doesn’t imply what is decorating. 
        * JRL: I disagree. I think this is a linter concern. 
        * YK: So you’re saying the linter would allow them to write whatever 
        * JRL: Correct 
        * BF: The `class C {}; export { C }` is semantically equivalent 
        * RB: C# has target decorators using `@class: dec`. We can expand this in a later proposal, and we have prior art in other languages. 
        * RB: This allows us to decorate the export even if we put class decorators before export. 
        * BF: I think we argued this before, you have to have proposals to argue??? I think this should be the… 
        * DE: Thank you RB for making this gist. 
* toString definition https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/109#issuecomment-410855443  
    * Decorators aren't included in methods' toString (and neither is static) 
    * Dan's take: include static and decorators in method toString 
* What is needed for Stage 3? 
    * Dan will be on vacation; next decorators meeting that he can attend is September 11 
        * Want to keep meeting without Dan? 
    * Do we have sufficient consensus on these details for Stage 3? 
    * Are there more things we need transpiler/developer feedback on? 
    * DE: I suggest RB start to champion the @dec export ordering. I think we need to timebox some of these to keep making progress. 
    * DE: I would like to take the easy approach and use export @dec. Let someone who feels strongly present a @dec export also at that meeting. I don’t want to hold up the proposal indefinitely on this line. 
    * YK: Users are seeing this as a committee pathology. 
    * RB: We could disallow in both positions. 
    * DE: I don’t think that will fly in committee. 
    * RB: I understand, but I like that option better than making the wrong decision now. 
    * YK: Let’s take it to TC39 to decide? 
    * RB: If we have one person against and one person against the alternative, we’re gonna stall. 
    * RB: I don’t think we should bring this committee. 
    * DE: JRL will be running the next few meetings while I’m on vacation for the next month. Let’s involve JH and WH in the meeting. 
    * DE: I recommend that we only spend X next meetings to keep discussing it. 
